FUENTE: https://www.epa.gov/recycle/how-do-i-recycle-common-recyclables
TITULO: How Do I Recycle Common Recyclables | US EPA

 How Do I Recycle Common Recyclables Deciding to recycle items is just the first step
You also want to make sure the items are recycled correctly
Below you will find common recyclables and related recycling information
For general tips on how to recycle correctly, visit Recycling 101. On this page: Paper/Cardboard Plastics Glass Aluminum Batteries Electronics Food Lawn Materials Used Oil Household Hazardous Waste Tires Metal Miscellaneous Find a recycling location near you Earth911 RecycleNation Disclaimer : These sites are listed for informational purposes only
U.S
EPA does not endorse any of these entities nor their services
 Contact Us to suggest any additional links. Paper/Cardboard Paper makes up 23 percent of municipal solid waste (trash) generated each year, more than any other material
Americans recycled about 68 percent of the paper they used in 2018 
This recovered paper is used to make new paper products, which saves trees and other natural resources
Most community or office recycling programs accept paper and paper products
Check what your community or office program accepts before you put it in the bin
Look for products that are made from recycled paper when you shop
Better yet, consider if you really need to print in the first place. Below are answers to frequently asked questions on paper and cardboard products
While general answers are provided, your local program may have different rules
Check with your local recycling program to learn if they accept these items
 Can I recycle newspapers? Yes, newspapers can be recycled. Can I recycle magazines? Yes, magazines can be recycled. Can I recycle pizza boxes? Yes! Pizza boxes can be recycled, even if they have grease in them
Make sure to remove any food scraps from the box and flatten it before placing it in the bin. Can I recycle mail? Yes! Even envelopes with plastic windows can be recycled. Are paper and cardboard takeout containers recyclable? It depends on how much food is left on them
Try rinsing or scraping the residue off to clean it
“Spatula-clean” is clean enough to recycle! Otherwise, containers contaminated with food cannot be recycled. Can cardboard containers and boxes be recycled? Yes, make sure to flatten any boxes before placing them in the bin
Examples of recyclable cardboard containers are some egg cartons, cereal boxes, and shoe boxes. Can shredded paper be recycled? It depends on your local recycling program. Can books be recycled? If the book is still in good condition, try donating it! Schools, places of faith, charities, and non-profits will often accept book donations
If the book is not in usable condition, it can be recycled
Paperback books can be recycled as-is; remove the cover from a hardcover book before recycling it. Can gift wrap be recycled? Paper gift wrap often is not recyclable when it has a shiny or laminated coating
If you use gift wrap, purchase a type that can be recycled or is made from recycled content
EPA encourages consumers to reuse gift bags, boxes, and tissue paper
Newspaper is an excellent alternative to gift wrap. Plastics More than 35 million tons of plastics were generated in the United States in 2018 and only 8.7 percent was recycled
Some types of plastics are not accepted in community recycling programs
Check with your local recycling program to find out which types of plastic they accept
When possible, purchase products made from recycled plastic materials. Below are frequent questions on plastic products
While general answers are provided, your local program may have different rules
Make sure to check with your local recycling provider to learn if they accept these items. Can I recycle plastic bags, wraps and films? These items are recyclable, but they cannot go in your household recycling bin
Retail and grocery stores often accept these materials for recycling
If necessary, be sure to cut off the sealable zippers from sandwich bags before recycling them
Please ask your local grocery and department store, or visit the Earth911 to find a location near you that recycles plastic bags and plastic wrap/film. Can plastic bottles and caps be recycled? Yes, typically the caps and labels can be left on the bottles as well. Can polystyrene foam (styrofoam) be recycled? Very few localities accept styrofoam in curbside recycling
Check Earth911 to learn where you can drop off your styrofoam for it to be recycled. Can plastic containers, cups and utensils be recycled? It depends on what types of plastic the containers and cups are made of and whether your local program accepts them
Items with food debris cannot be recycled
Plastic utensils also cannot be recycled. Can I recycle compostable or bio-based plastics? Compostable Plastic : No
Compostable plastics are not intended for recycling and can contaminate and disrupt the recycling stream if mixed with non-compostable plastics
If your community does not have a composting recycling pick-up program that accepts compostable plastic, contact your garbage/recycling company or local government to find out if there are any drop-off locations for your compostable plastic items. Biobased Plastics : To determine what waste disposal options are available for a biobased plastic item, it is necessary to read the product’s label as to its compostability and recyclability. Learn more by reading the Frequently Asked Questions about Plastic Recycling and Composting. What do the symbols mean on the bottom of plastic bottles and containers? These symbols were created to identify the type of plastic used to make the container
This can help you determine whether the item is recyclable by your local program
The resin number is contained in a triangle that looks very similar to the recycling symbol
However, this symbol does not necessarily mean it can be collected for recycling in your community. Photo courtesy of ASTM International. Can I recycle plastic containers that had food in them? It depends on how much food in on the containers and what type of plastic containers your local recycling program accepts
First, c heck with your local recycling program for what plastics they accept (refer to the question above about resin codes to help you with this!)
Then, i f accepted by your local recycling program, rinse or scrape any food residue off to clean the containers
“Spatula-clean” is clean enough to recycle! Glass Glass, especially glass food and beverage containers, can be recycled over and over again
In the United States in 2018 , 12.3 million tons of glass were generated, 31.3 percent of which was recycled
Making new glass from recycled glass is typically cheaper than using raw materials. Below are frequent questions on glass products
While general answers are provided, your local program may have different rules
Check with your local recycling program to find out if they accept these items. Can I recycle different glass colors/types together? Most curbside recycling programs accept different glass colors and types mixed together and then sort the glass at the recovery facility. Can I recycle broken glass? No, broken glass should not go into the recycling bin
Glass shards can harm workers and damage equipment. Can I leave my metal bottle cap on my glass bottle when I recycle? No, metal bottle caps should be recycled separately from the glass bottles. Aluminum In 2018 , 3.9 million tons of aluminum municipal solid waste was generated
The total recycling rate for aluminum items was 34.9 percent
Both aluminum cans and foil can be recycled. Below are frequent questions on aluminum products
While general answers are provided, your local program may have different rules
Check with your local recycling program to find out if they accept these items. Should aluminum cans be crushed before recycling them? No, generally, aluminum cans should not be crushed before they are recycled
For areas with single-stream recycling, crushed cans are harder to detect when being sorted at recycling facilities
If you live in an area with multi-stream recycling, crushing cans is not an issue. Can I recycle aluminum foil? Yes, aluminum foil can be recycled
Make sure to remove any food residue before recycling. Batteries Lead-acid batteries are one of the most recycled products
In 2018, 2.9 million were recycled, representing 99 percent of generation
Recycling rates of other battery types are not as well tracked
Although batteries are recyclable, most batteries, including lithium-ion, lithium metal, lead-acid, nickel cadmium, and other rechargeable batteries, should NOT go in household garbage or recycling bins
These batteries require special handling and should be taken to specialty drop-off locations or household hazardous waste collection points 
Check out our resources on how to manage and recycle your used household batteries and your used lithium-ion batteries. Dry-Cell Batteries are used in a variety of electronics and include alkaline and carbon zinc (9-volt, D, C, AA, AAA), mercuric-oxide (button, some cylindrical and rectangular), and silver-oxide and zinc-air (button)
Look for in-store recycling bins or community collection events to dispose of these batteries. Lithium-ion Batteries are used in many rechargeable products such as electronics, toys, wireless headphones, handheld power tools, small and large appliances, electric vehicles, and electrical energy storage systems
Do NOT put them in the trash or municipal recycling bins
Household lithium-ion batteries can be brought to dedicated in-store recycling bins or household hazardous waste collection events for disposal
Medium- and large-scale electric vehicle or energy storage batteries should be returned to the manufacturer, automobile dealer, or installation company for management at end of life. Lithium Metal Batteries are similar to lithium-ion batteries but are not rechargeable
They are commonly used in products such as cameras, watches, remote controls, handheld games, and smoke detectors
Do NOT put them in the trash or municipal recycling bins: look for dedicated in-store recycling bins or household hazardous waste collection events for disposal. Lead-Acid Batteries can be found in automobiles, boats, snowmobiles, motorcycles, golf carts, wheelchairs, and other large transportation vehicles
Return lead-acid batteries to a battery retailer or local household hazardous waste collection program; do NOT put lead-acid batteries in the trash or municipal recycling bins. Other Rechargeable Batteries include nickel cadmium, nickel metal hydride, and nickel-zinc batteries
These batteries can be found in cordless power tools, cordless phones, cell phones, digital cameras, and small electronics
Do not put these rechargeable batteries in the trash or municipal recycling bins: look for dedicated in-store recycling bins or household hazardous waste collection events for disposal. Electronics EPA estimates that 2.7 million tons of consumer electronics were generated in 2018 
About 38.5 percent of these electronics were recycled
Electronics cannot be recycled curbside, but they can be dropped off at specific collection sites
Manufacturers and retailers offer several options to donate or recycle electronics, including cell phones, computers, and televisions
EPA has a list of manufacturers and retailers that offer options to recycle electronics 
Before recycling electronics, delete all your personal information
Check with your local recycling facility for best ways to recycle electronics, and visit our Electronics Donation and Recycling page for more information. Food EPA estimates that 63.1 million tons of food waste was generated in the commercial, institutional, and residential sectors in 2018
Food cannot be recycled
However, throwing food into the trash is not the best management option
Food that ends up in landfills leads to methane emissions
EPA recommends reducing food waste by buying only what you need and by eating your leftovers. Composting is an environmentally friendly method of food waste disposal
In 2018, about 4.1 percent of food waste was composted. Learn more on how to reduce food waste and how to compost at home. Lawn Materials In 2018 , about 35.4 million tons of yard trimmings were generated
Lawn materials cannot be recycled, but they can be composted
If you are unable to compost, check with your local community to learn if there is a yard trimming collection service near you. Used Oil Never dump your used motor oil down the drain — the used oil from one oil change can contaminate one million gallons of fresh water
By recycling your used oil, you help keep our water supply clean
Additionally, it takes only one gallon of used oil to produce 2.5 quarts of new motor oil compared to 42 gallons of crude oil
Many garages and auto-supply stores that sell motor oil also accept oil for recycling
Check out our resources on learning to manage, reuse or recycle your used oil 
You can also find a motor oil recycler near you by visiting Earth911. Household Hazardous Waste Household Hazardous Waste Recycling Learn more about household hazardous waste recycling. Leftover household products that can catch fire, react, or explode under certain circumstances, or that are corrosive are considered household hazardous waste (HHW) 
Although it depends on your local solid waste agency/recycling facility, some examples include pesticides, herbicides, insecticides, paints, solvents, oil filters, light bulbs, batteries, unemptied aerosol cans, ammunition, ammonia, antifreeze, and nail polish
These products require special care when you dispose of them
HHW may be dangerous to people and bad for the environment if they are poured down the drain, dumped on the ground, or thrown out with regular trash. What you can do: Try to reduce your purchases of these products, and look for alternative, non-hazardous products. When you need to dispose of these products, look for special collection events in your community or permanent collection centers
Sometimes businesses that sell these products will also accept them for recycling. If you have to dispose of HHW, first check with your local waste management agency to learn what rules apply in your community. Please visit our Household Hazardous Waste web page for more information on household hazardous waste and tips for how to reduce it in your home. What should I do with paint? Check local places that take donations (schools, places of faith, charities, non-profits) to learn if they will accept paint donations, and contact your local recycling or household hazardous waste facility for ways you can recycle paint in your area. What should I do with barometers and thermometers? Avoid discarding them in the trash
Check with your local recycling or household hazardous waste facility, or visit Earth911 for more information on ways to properly dispose of them, as some thermometers are considered household hazardous waste. What should I do with burnt-out light bulbs? Check with your local recycling facility for recycling options for burnt-out light bulbs, or take them to a retail store in your area that offers light bulb recycling. Tires Most garages are required to accept and recycle your used tires when you have new ones put on
You may be able to return used tires to either a tire retailer or a local recycling facility that accepts tires
Some communities will hold collection events for used tires
Tires should not be abandoned
Disease-carrying pests such as rodents will make tire piles their homes
Tire piles can also catch on fire. Metal In 2018 , 19.2 million tons of ferrous metals (iron and steel) were generated
EPA estimates that the recycling rate of ferrous metals from durable goods was 27.8 percent
The same year, 2.5 million tons of nonferrous metals (not containing iron) were generated
The recycling rate for nonferrous metals was approximately 68 percent. How do I recycle metal? There are different programs and options for metal recycling depending on your locality
Check to find out what is available in your area. Miscellaneous What should I do with dirty diapers? While we provide general guidance below, please check with your local solid waste agency or recycling program first. Generally, you should flush the excrement down the toilet, and then place the diaper in the trash
Consider using reusable cloth diapers instead of disposable diapers. What should I do with old clothes and old shoes? Gently worn clothes and shoes can be donated to many charities
For damaged clothes and shoes, please double-check with your local charity to determine if it will accept them
Some retail stores recycle clothing or shoes
Check your local ones to find out if they accept these items for recycling. Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Open Sidenav Menu Close Sidenav Menu Contact Us about Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Contact Us about Reduce, Reuse, Recycle to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem. Last updated on May 20, 2025 